Fatou: I would like to be a mentor
because there are many DeafBlind
people out there living in isolation,
tucked away from society,
and it's not easy
to come out of your shell.
I want to be the person
who helps them out of the oblivion
and get their ass
moving on with their life.
[music plays]
Rebecca: We think of disability as sad,
as gloom and doom,
as depression, as incapability,
and we don't think about people
with disabilities as being dynamic.
Alice: We're much more flexible
than people think.
It's not that complicated.
It doesn't matter how my
mechanics work, it's how I live.
I don't fake it.
I don't whitewash it.
I don't, you know, Jerry-rig it.
I just work around it
to make anything possible
because I believe that everything is.
Rebecca: We encourage people to try
to see the dimensions of disability
either within themselves
or in other people.
The most malleable people,
the people who are most creative,
the people who are most able
to sort of roll with things and go with
and go with the flow are
my friends with disabilities.
And so instead of looking at someone
with a disability or seeing yourself
with someone as a disability
for the things that you can't do,
I want you to see all of
the things that you are and try to,
if you can, let that part of
yourself shine without having
to feel like you have to
make excuses or that you have to
somehow feel like
your disability is what defines you.
[music plays]
Alice: If you don't have blindness skills,
there are blindness centers.
There are commissions
of the blind in most states,
There are divisions
of the deaf in most states.
Latch on, track them down
and grab whatever you can.
Fatou: What's important is that you
get to know people who are open minded,
who want to understand
you and support you.
Alice: An ally it is not just your friend.
They go through what you go through.
They help you traverse
whatever we're trying to traverse.
Korrine: That felt empowering to be able
to just have a community
and have a group of people that really
understood where I was coming from
and to be able to go into a space
and feel safe and feel comfortable,
and feel welcomed.
I'm not alone in this, you know.
Fatou: And, you know, feel free to share your
experiences with other DeafBlind people.
If you share them with others,
you'll gain an even deeper understanding
and be better prepared for the future.
Alice: Learn how to cook, please
parents, teach them!
You know, do your laundry,
all those kinds of things.
Somebody needs to teach you
or you need to acquire those skills.
So you need to know what you need to know,
or find a mentor that
will help you know that.
Rebecca: I do think that there is this part of me
that wants to fight for disability rights
and that also feels very angry
and frustrated just like everybody else.
But I can either sit back and be angry
about it and complain about it.
I can post online about it. It's futile.
It does absolutely nothing.
It doesn't improve anything.
It only adds fuel to the fire.
The only thing I can do is
try to make some tangible step
towards showing other people what I think
would be a better
way of handling disability
or interacting with people with disabilities
or living with a disability.
Korrine: This is who I am.
Try to understand where I'm coming from.
You know, you might experience
things differently and that's okay.
But this is where I'm at.
This is what I have to offer.
If you don't like that,
I'm sorry. Too bad.
But you know, like I said,
I'm proud of who I am.
I'm proud of where I come from,
I've come a long way.
[music ends]